What's the optimal experience for Go?

Assume we can do in-bramble incremental builds? With that I could do this:

```python
def build():
    return go_build(files["./"])
def mod_tidy():
    return go_mod_tidy(files["./"])
```

and then you just `bramble build :build` and `bramble run :mod_tidy`.

This does create a bit of a duality though. What if someone wants to use the Go command in a way that's not available/supported.

You could just run `go build` and then you'd need to build everything again from scratch.

You could just run `bramble run :go_build go build` but then the go command is going to build stuff the way it likes to build things and it will ignore the artifacts available within that context. The cache would be cleared on every run. You also can't fix this in software because even a `go` command that is aware of the build cache won't be able to write new stuff to the store.

So if this is how it all plays out it seems like people would have an unsatisfying experience and try and work towards compromises, so what would be ideal?

Ideal is maybe that we provide a Go command that can leverage bramble while still being the interface for the build. We basically provide a `go` command and that `go` command runs bramble in order to work. We could do this with `bramble run` but then it would need the ability to write to the store, could provide an api for that.

So basically we want `go` commands that are an alias for `bramble run something` and then the `go` command is really a wrapper that is interacting with bramble how we want.

Ok, so key takeaway is: allow a process in the `bramble run` sandbox to write/build to the store via a socket (or whatever) to allows more dynamic use-cases.
